Docs (#26)
HiddenHarmsHub/comparison-interface: docs/configuration.md

---
id: configuration
title: Configuration
---

The appearance and behaviour of the comparative judgement software can be changed in several ways. This includes

> the option to change every piece of text that appears on the website including the labels on the buttons, allowing the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the option to change all text that appears on the website including the labels on the buttons, allowing the
```

> interface to appear in a language other than its default of English. There are two levels of configuration files, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
interface to appear in languages other than English (the default). There are two levels of configuration files, the
```

first is the language file and the second is the project file. In order to keep the project file small the language
file contains all of the strings that are less likely to need changing if the interface will be in English.
The project configuration file controls the behaviour of the interface and sets the strings that are more likely to change
from project to project. Any of the strings from the language configuration can be added to the project file if you
want to change them for a project without changing the language file itself, they can also be changed in the language file.
Details of the images to be used can either be provided in the project configuration or, with the exception of the
weighted pairs option, in a csv file. Up to three additional pages can be included in the interface. There are three
ways each of these pages can be created: as a published google document; a full HTML file (for example a word file
saved as HTML); as a fragment of HTML code.

## Images

The images to be used for the comparisons need to be put in the `comparison_interface/static/images` folder.

The images must meet the following criteria:

> + be either png or jpg/jpeg files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ format png or jpg/jpeg files
```

> + be at least 300x300 pixels in size

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ minimum pixel size 300x300
```

> + have unique file names

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ unique file names
```

## Language Configuration

> All the the text that a user sees on the website can be configured. Any strings which are language rather than project specific are stored in the language file in the languages directory. The sample file is `en.json` and contains all of the non project specific strings in English. This file is a JSON file and can be copied and edited to be used for other languages. All of the keys in the JSON should be present for any additional languages generated and the iso code for the language used to name the file for example `en.json` or `de.json`. Any string can actually be used for the file name as long as that same string is used in the language setting described below but using the iso code will help others understand the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the the text that a user sees on the website can be configured. Any strings which are language rather than project specific are stored in the language file in the languages directory. The sample file is `en.json` and contains all of the non project specific strings in English. This file is a JSON file and can be copied and edited to be used for other languages. All of the keys in the JSON should be present for any additional languages generated and the ISO code for the language used to name the file for example `en.json` or `de.json`. Any string can actually be used for the file name as long as that same string is used in the language setting described below but using the iso code will help others understand the system.
```

> To tell the system which file to use change the setting in the `flask.py` file in the `configuration` directory. The configuration for English is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To tell the system which file to use, change the setting in the `flask.py` file in the `configuration` directory. The configuration for English is as follows:
```

```python
    LANGUAGE = 'en'
```

This will look for the display strings in `languages/en.json`.

If the language strings do need to be changed for a specific project, then any of the keys in the language file can be included in the project configuration file and these will be displayed instead of the strings set in the language file.

## Project Configuration

The project configuration file is written in JSON and has four sections.

1. **behaviourConfiguration** defines the settings to control the behaviour of the system including what links are present in the header
1. **userFieldsConfiguration** details the questions that the user is asked on the registration page
1. **websiteTextConfiguration** defines the text that the user sees on the website
1. **comparisonConfiguration** describes the images being used for the project and how they should be selected for comparison

When the system is started the configuration file requested will be validated and if there are any problems with the file the error message should help to fix them.

> The easiest way to create a configuration file is to start with one of the existing examples and modify that to meet the requirements of the project. Each of the sections will be covered below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The easiest way to create a configuration file is to start with one of the existing examples and modify it to meet the requirements of the project. Each of the sections will be covered below.
```

**Note**: If the configuration file is edited while the system is running then the system will have to be reset and all
data in the database will be deleted. Once a system is running do not change a configuration file unless you want to reset the database.

### Behaviour configuration

This section controls aspects of how the system works.

The **exportPathLocation** is required and determines where exported data files are saved when the database is exported.

There is also a required boolean key **renderCookieBanner**, which determines whether the user is asked to accept the website cookies when first opening the website. The title and text for the cookie banner is stored in the language file but it you want to customise it for a particular project then the **siteCookiesTitle** and **siteCookiesText** keys can be added to the project configuration with the strings you want to display.

There are also three booleans which are required to determine which additional pages to include. The configuration of
these pages is covered in the [Additional pages](#additional-pages) sub-section.

Five further boolean keys are required.

> **renderUserItemPreferencePage** determines whether the user is asked to specify whether they know each item in the set of items to be judged. For large item sets it is probably best to determine a users knowledge based on groups rather than individual items and set this value to false. However, it can be used in combination with the group preferences to add an extra level of selection if required. For weighted item configurations this boolean should be set to false.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**renderUserItemPreferencePage** determines if the user is asked to specify whether they know each item in the set of items to be judged. For large item sets it is probably best to determine a users knowledge based on groups rather than individual items and set this value to false. However, it can be used in combination with the group preferences to add an extra level of selection if required. For weighted item configurations this boolean should be set to false.
```

If no user registration questions are required then the userFieldsConfiguration can just be an empty list as follows:

```json
{
  "userFieldsConfiguration": []
}
```

If questions are required then the configuration for each question needs to be added to the list. Each question can be either required or optional. A user is not allowed to register until all required questions are answered. Some fields such as email and integer also have additional validation on the data supplied. If the data does not meet the criteria, such as an invalid email address, then an error message will display on the screen. With the exception for group select which is covered in the [website text configuration section](#website-text-configuration), these error messages are not configurable as they are messages generated automatically by the browser. They will appear in the language which the user has set as their preferred browser/system language.

The supported html widget types are:

+ text
+ int
+ radio
+ dropdown
+ email

> For example, to configure a single question to as the user's first name which is required the following configuration can be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to configure the user's first name as a required, single question then use the following configuration.
```

Author: ```suggestion
For example, to add a single question which asks for the user's first name and which is required, use the following configuration.
```

```json
{
  "userFieldsConfiguration": [
    {
      "name": "name",
      "displayName": "First Name",
      "type": "text",
      "maxLimit": 250,
      "required": true
    },
  ]
}
```

This will be rendered on the page as follows.

![An image of the configuration above rendered in html](images/name_field.png)

> An example of the full configuration for each of these types is provided in all of the example files. These can be used as a basis to construct your own questions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Full configuration for each of these types is provided in all of the example files. These can be used as a basis to construct your own questions.
```

### Website text configuration

There are up to four compulsory keys (depending on the behaviour configuration) in the website text configuration. There is one optional field. In addition, any of the fields in the language configuration file can be added into this section to override the language defaults should this be required.

> All project configurations require the **rankItemInstructionLabel** key which is the text that is presented to the user along with the two images to make the judgement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All project configurations require the **rankItemInstructionLabel** key which is the text that is presented to the user along with the two images used to make the judgement.
```

To see how the JSON should be configured please refer to the examples provided.

Refer to `examples/config-equal-item-weights.json` or `examples/config-equal-item-weights-preference.json` to configure a scenario without any weighting for the item pairs and either with or without the item preference stage.

Refer to `examples/config-custom-item-weights.json` to configure a scenario where custom weights will be defined for all item pairs.

If the configuration is being provided in a csv file, then the JSON file must provide the name of the csv file as follows:

```json
"comparisonConfiguration" : {
        "csvFile": "image-data.csv"
    }
```

The csv file must contain a minimum of two columns and up to five columns. The column headers and their content are listed below. The order of the column is not important but the header names are: case is not relevant but the correct wording and spacing must be followed.

+ **image** - *required* - The file name of the image.
+ **item display name** - *required* - The string to be used to describe the image in the interface.

> + **item name** - *optional* - A string which identifies the image and only contains lowercase alpha numeric characters, underscored and dashes. This will be generated from item display name if the column is not provided but if there are any characters (with the exception of spaces) in the item display name column then validation errors will be raised.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ **item name** - *optional* - A string which identifies the image and only contains lowercase alpha numeric characters, underscores and dashes. This will be generated from the item display name if the column is not provided, but if there are any characters (with the exception of spaces) in the item display name column then validation errors will be raised.
```

> + **group display name** - *optional* - A string with identified the group that this image belongs to. If this column is not provided then all of the images will be added to the single default group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ **group display name** - *optional* - A string that identified the group that this image belongs to. If this column is not provided then all of the images will be added to the single default group.
```

Author: ```suggestion
+ **group display name** - *optional* - A string that identifies the group that this image belongs to. If this column is not provided then all of the images will be added to the single default group.
```

+ **group name** - *optional* - As with the item name this will be automatically generated from the group display name if that column is provided but if validation errors are raised due to special characters then this column may also be required.

## Troubleshooting

1. The configuration file requires a specific format. Try to follow one of the examples supplied with this project to avoid problems.
1. When running the `setup` command, the software validates the format of the configuration file, and if used the csv file. The messages will help you to find any problems with the file.

> 1. If you get the error **RuntimeError: Application unhealthy state. Please contact the website administrator.**. This means that the website configuration file was modified after the website setup was executed. To fix this problem, run the `Reset` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If you get the error **RuntimeError: Application unhealthy state. Please contact the website administrator.**. This means that the website configuration file was modified after the website setup was executed. To fix this problem, run the `reset` command.
```
